Q. Did you hear a self critical voice in your head throughout the process of learning during these last few weeks?     	What did it say to you? Do you believe what it said?


A. To answer the above honestly, yes.Almost everyday.The way it happened was that ,the day I joined the course, I started off listening to, you tube videos on computer sciences. Learnt a lot about programming,networking, relevant terminologies but throughout the period my inner voice kept telling me to start looking and working on the assignments.My mind was warning me all the time that I could get caught in the vicious cycle of tutorials and end up stressed out and panicking around the due dates.Oh!if only I had listened to my inner critic and started working on the assignments earlier I would have been more at ease.Fortunately I still have time to be able to complete my assignments in time.


Q. On a scale of 0-5 how confident are you with each of an assignments?

A.  My confidence level regarding submitting my assignments ranges between 4 to 5.


Q. Do you have a personal learning strategy? If so what parts of your learning strategy worked? What problems did you face?If you don't have a strategy yet,what do you think might work? Invent and describe a stragegy for yourself.

A. I do have some learning strategies in place. All the same, I would like to tweak them a bit to achieve more. For instance , I realized that I am most productive in the mornings and evenings. So I try to do my learning and other mentally challenging stuff during these times. The times like late evenings or after lunch hours I try to do errands and other chores around the house. This planning and execution has served me well. However, I realized that within those active hours too I need to take short breaks.Like maybe ,go out and breathe fresh air or stretch a bit, walk around a few steps etc.

The other stuff I need to work on is cut off the distractions.Especially Social media. What starts as a one minute peak into FB and whatsapp soon ends up taking several minutes.Planning to take up Cal Newport's Time management advice in this regard.


Q.If you send a Time travel text to yourself at the start of this course what would you say?

A.If I have to send a Time travel text to myself at the start of this course, I would say" Plan your days, weeks and months well. Create a schedule on a Google calender any other app. Stick to your schedule. Pack your days with time allotted to not just studies and assignments but for some fun things and impromptu and unforeseen things. Like for instance last week and a half my Child was unwell here and my father admitted to hospital in my hometown both needing my time and attention. As a result could'nt achieve much on academic front. In a nutshell Time is money and spend it well.


Q.What are you proud of upto this point in the course?

A.To think of we just started on July 25th of this year. Through teachers and co-students at WhiteCliffe and You tube tutorials and search engines like Google I picked up a lot of jargon and knowhow about the subject. For a person who knew no a,b.c.d's of the subject I am proud of it.


Q. Have you had a fight response to technology? what does it feel like? how did you overcomeit?

A. Since decades I have been running away from Technology. I studied Health Sciences and Psychology in College and Universities and reasonably happy in the fields. I was looking at it from distance and trying to supress the desire from time to time. All along was fascinated with stuff people were doing in the industry ,especially the VFX effects used in Cinema. The good that came out of scrolling through FB is coming accross WhiteCliffe"s advertisement regarding this course and 'lo' I jumped at it. I have never been so happy in months. Thanks to WhitCliffe and you teachers.


Q.Is there something over which you have gained a degree of mastery before in your life? Gymnastics, Rubik's cube,  video game?

A. I have learnt oil painting for a couple of years longtime back. Mostly landscapes.It was one of the activities during which i used to experience the term "Flow". Completely immersed in the activity and happy state. Tried a few other stuff but creative writing is my pet.Tried my hand at writing short stories and wish to do some travel writing during the vacation.
The takeaway here is practice, practice,practice is the mantra to get better at any thing.


Q. Have you mediated before?

A. Yes.Practiced different forms of meditation. Transcedental meditation is one of them. Mindfullness meditation is one of the latest I used to practice a few months ago. I think I should start doing it again., It helps relax my mind and body. Feel more productive and energetic.


Q.Have you developed a habit of exploring?

A. Yes. Very much into trying new and different things. Joined a Scottish line dancing class two years back but stopped due to covid lockdowns.Exploring the beautiful landscapes in New zealand, the different cuisines are other fun activities we try out as family.


Q. Do you value creativity as a value itself?What about it as a tool for learning to think logically?


A. For me creativity is as important as breathing. It's a core value. All wonderfull things in life come from creativity. The best of movies, paintings, music, fiction ,non-fiction and in the digital age the computer generated designs, video games have enriched our lives like never before.
Creativity involves many steps -tossing up ideas and thinking about them, formulating step by step plans to execute them. To achieve the end product involves logical thinking.For example, even creating stories for children involves being mindful of the age groups you would want to address,the complexity of story befiiting the age group and the visual images appropriate on the covers and inside along with the text. The font size, the background colours and many more. All this involves logical thinking. It's amazing how creativity sharpens your attention to detail.

Q. How many tabs do you have open in your web browser right now?What is the ratio of study related tabs to distraction related tabs?

Fortunately right now only two tabs are open on my web browser now. Both study related. Though I must confess that the opposite is the true most of the time.Will have to work on myself in that area. Also learnt during this course that opening too many tabs at a time slows down your computer.



 









 
